Do we generally only
import utility functions?
>> Do we generally only
Good question, so utility functions
are a very handy thing to import.
But, no, we might be importing, for
example, some data from a module.
Maybe some module is
actually going through and
going to generate or load some data for
us like a JSON object,
let's say, for
our big long name of dog breeds.
We could even put that
in a separate module.
We could put our big, big, big,
long array of all of these dog
breeds in a module that exposes
that as a constant, breeds.
And we could say import breeds
from breeds.js or what have you.
So, essentially, we can import values.
It's sort of like any kind of
property that could be pointing
at something in JavaScript.
A function could be
pointed at by a property.
A literal value, a string, or a Boolean,
that's probably less likely
that we'd want to import.
But any kind of data,
maybe a complex object,
maybe some adjacent object with
lots of different properties and
nested objects within it,
we could import that, too.
So, basically,
we can import whatever we want.
We just have to make sure that it is
exported by the module that we want to
load it from, yeah?
>> There's a question around importing
modules on the Internet versus locally.
>> Mm-hm, yeah, so as I mentioned,
importing modules when the files
are hosted somewhere on the Internet like
on anjana.dev, let's say, will work.
Because of the way
the browser decides whether
the thing that the page is trying to
do is loading something appropriate.
So the fact that we're loading two
scripts that are both hosted on
anjana.dev matters to the browser.
This is due to something called CORS,
C-O-R-S, Cross Origin Request Scripting.
And it's a whole big complex topic that
you could look up and read more about.
But, essentially, when you're loading
things locally with those file URLs as
opposed to an HTTPs URL, the browser can't
be sure about that security of whether
you're loading something from somewhere
that's trusted or not trusted, or
whether it's actually coming from
the same, what's called origin.
So the same sort of URL.
And so
this is something that just doesn't work.
So if you wanted to work
with modules locally, and
the reason that we didn't do this in
our Doggo Fetch project is because
there's just a little bit
extra work you have to do.
What you have to do is, essentially,
run a local server that
pretends to be a website.
That's not a website that's out there on
a public URL that anybody can get to,
but is what we call a local host website.
So if you've seen projects, maybe,
where they ask you to start a server,
and then load a page from local host,
that is what's going on there.
So if we wanna work with a JavaScript
project that uses modules, usually
what we're gonna be doing is not opening
a file in our browser from a file URL,
we're going to be using some small
little program on our local computer.
For example,
Node has a tool called Express,
that can run a web server
locally on our computer.
Or there are a bunch of other services or
toolkits that do this for us, too.
For example, next,
if folks have run into that before.
Anyway, there's a lot of different ways
that we can run a program locally on our
computer which pretends to be a website.
Runs a, what's called local server
that's serving up both of those
module files or however many module
files we have from the same URL.
So that we're not loading them from
file URLs, we're loading them from
an HTTP URL that happens to just
be pointed at a local website.
So this is a whole can of
worms that we can explore.
And if you read up about modules,
for example, on MDN and
their guide about modules,
you will see this mentioned.
That this is due to course security
policies that browsers have.
So good question.
>> Yeah, I just wanna add to that,
she was asking also about React
modules and how it's loaded.
And generally your NPM installing a bunch
of modules to your local node modules
folder, and that's where they're actually
coming from when you hit import a library.
That's how that's working.
>> Yes, exactly, so
we haven't really touched on Node,
which is a whole big topic.
And I'm sure there are entire courses that
you can take to really dig into Node,
which is, essentially,
server-side JavaScript.
But usually what's happening is,
we have, as Mark points out,
a whole bunch of different modules.
Some of which we wrote, and maybe some
of which other people wrote that we
want to reuse other people's
code that's open source.
That we want to take
advantage of in our programs,
so that we don't have to
reinvent the wheel all the time.
And we can actually import all
kinds of different modules.
Modules that we wrote
in files that we have,
modules that are being loaded from
somewhere else on the Internet,
modules that were installed as kind
of dependencies of our project.
So it gets very very complex, and
there's a lot more to be said about it.
But, yes, when we're working
with really complex sites or
frameworks like React, or kind of
Meta frameworks like Next, let's say,
we end up working with
a ton of different modules.
And we have tools like NPM,
which is a way of downloading,
and installing, and
essentially including those
modules in our project so
that we can import from them,
even if we don't have them
kind of as a file that we've
written next to our main program file,
yeah?
>> So if I have a HTML page and
I wanna split it into modules and
generate parts of the webpage,
what would you recommend to get started?
>> So if you're working locally, you're
saying you want to kind of develop a site
and split up the code across multiple
modules, like we just saw in the module or
Doggo Fetch example.
But we wanna work, we wanna develop on
our computer before we put it out on
the Internet for the whole world to see.
There are a few different options.
For example, if you're used to working
with another programming language that
runs on the backend like Python,
for example,
you can run a simple Python script that
starts up a server that serves all of
the files in a certain directory on your
local computer, just locally for you.
And that will satisfy
the browser's security worries.
But if you're working in
just a JavaScript universe,
you're probably going to be using Node and
some kind of program that
you're downloading from NPM that
has an ability to launch a server.
So, for example, Express is a framework,
I guess you could say,
for running websites with
JavaScript on the backend.
So Node can let you use Express
to run a server locally.
And then there are other frameworks and
things like, basically,
tooling that allow you to
use something like NPM.
You might for
example be following some tutorial,
they'll have instructions on
how to install the project.
You'll download, maybe, a zip file, or
maybe you'll clone a git repository
onto your local computer.
And then it'll give you some kind of
command you might run something like
a start command, which launches off a
bunch of functionality that that developer
has already written for you that starts a
server locally so that you can develop and
tweak the project.
So it really depends
on different projects.
There's lots of different
ways of doing it.
But if you want to get started with
that kind of local server running,
you're probably gonna wanna
look into Node, next, yeah?
>> Yeah, I would probably say that
something like 11ty would be a great
project to start with.
Cuz, essentially,
what they're looking for is a CMS, right?
And being able to load pieces of
HTML into the header or whatever.
So 11ty is a great place to start
cuz it's a static site builder.
>> Yeah, so, for example, yeah, this
is a very popular, simple site builder,
11ty, that you could use to, let's say
make a blog or something like that.
And it has a pretty simple workflow for
running it.
So you can read, it's 1-1-T-Y.dev,
11ty.dev, you can read about it there.
There are some other ones that
you might run into out there,
like one that is starting to get more
attention in the web communities, Astro,
for example, but
that's a little bit more complex.
And then you might find that if you
are working with a framework like React,
or what have you, you have some tooling
like Create React App is a little starter
kit for React that can also do
this kind of local site running.
And then, another really, once you're
getting into much more complex sites,
you might find a Next.js comes up.
So these are a few great
things to be aware of.
I second Mark's recommendation,
11ty would be a fun thing to try if
you'd like to start building
a site locally with JavaScript.
So you can read up about that, and
I'm sure it's also mentioned in some
other courses on Frontend Masters.
>> Another option would be Gatsby,
and we have a Gatsby course.
>> Uh-huh.
>> That's another good option.
But, yeah, there's lots of these kind of.
>> Yeah, so Gatsby.js is another
kind of system for running this.
And I think there's some courses on
Frontend Masters about, and there's also,
yeah, more generally kind of a Next.js is-
>> We also have [INAUDIBLE].
>> Yeah, exactly, there's something very,
this is something that you see
a lot in professional settings.
A lot of professional teams are working
with tools like React and Next.js.
They kind of go hand-in-hand.
So as you go deeper into your journey,
you'll encounter more of
these kind of systems.
And the other kind of things that
you'll notice is, if you start,
if let's say you join a team
that's working with JavaScript,
they might be working with
a particular framework like React.
They might have their own way that
they build and serve their sites.
So they might have their own instructions
for how to be doing that locally.
So essentially each different
project that you work on, or
that you work with, might have
a different approach for doing this,
and for working with modules, and
for structuring modules, and for
organizing modules in
a huge complex code base.
Yeah?
>> The final note I just wanted to mention
because I ran into it when I started
using JavaScript Modules, is the fact
that the browser caches these modules.
And so you might change some code and
then you try to load your browser and
the code doesn't change.
And so you have to hold the Shift key and
hit Refresh-
>> Mm-hm.
>> For hard Refresh.
>> Yeah, so remember we said the two
hardest problems in computer science
are cache and validation,
naming things, and off-by-one errors.
[LAUGH] So caching is a really complex
topic that what the browser's trying
to do is it's trying to load
your site as fast as possible.
And so it's going to say, that utilities
script, that utilities module,
excuse me, that you loaded that one time,
I've already seen it before.
So I'm just gonna remember what
happened when I loaded that before.
And I'm going to use those functions that
it exported to give to you whenever you
reload your page.
But if then you go in and you edit
your utilities file, and change one
of the functions, the browser says, well,
I already remember the old ones, so
you have to manually tell it, hey,
hey, hey, don't use the cached version
with the Shift+Cmd+R instead
of just Cmd+R or Ctrl+R.
So, yeah, that's a great point,
Mark, thanks for mentioning.
But suffice it to say, modules do
get very, there's a lot to be said.
There's a lot of complexity and
there's a lot of history here,
of how the JavaScript and
the web community,
I would say we're even still in the
progress of moving to a modular existence.
Because, again,
JavaScript was created back in '95 for
just running a few lines
of script code to edit or
add a little bit of interactive
flair to an HTML page.
And now we're building hugely
complex projects with it.
So this is part of the fact we said,
JavaScript is a moving target,
JavaScript is a living,
breathing ecosystem, and
modules are a relatively new
concept to that ecosystem.
So if you find this interesting, you can
dig way deeper and you can take some of
the other courses that go into more
details about working with modular and
JavaScript code.